Add support for several platform including but not limited to embedded system (#2531)
mlpack/mlpack: CMakeLists.txt

option(DOWNLOAD_STB_IMAGE "Download stb_image for image loading." ON)
option(BUILD_GO_SHLIB "Build Go shared library." OFF)
option(BUILD_DOCS "Build doxygen documentation (if doxygen is available)." ON)
set(BOARD_NAME "" CACHE INTERNAL "Enter the board name to compile mlpack for.")

if(CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)
  set(GFORTRAN_LIBRARY "" CACHE STRING "Path for gfortran library.")

>   set(PTHREAD_LIBRARY "" CACHE STRING "Path for pthread library")

Reviewer: Actually I am not sure it is necessary to have these lines here.  If we call `find_library( ... )` later to set the value of `GFORTRAN_LIBRARY`, then that will create the cache entry.

Author: Exactly, there is no need for these ones here

  include(board/flags-config.cmake)
  if(BOARD_NAME STRGREATER  "")
    flags(${BOARD_NAME})
  endif()
endif()

# Set minimum library version required by mlpack.
set(ARMADILLO_VERSION "8.400.0")
set(ENSMALLEN_VERSION "2.10.0")
set(BOOST_VERSION "1.58")
set(CEREAL_VERSION "1.1.2")

# If BUILD_SHARED_LIBS is OFF then mlpack library will be build statically
# In addition, all mlpack CLI bindings are going to be linked statically as
# well.
if (WIN32)
  option(BUILD_SHARED_LIBS

>       "Compile shared libraries (if OFF, static libraries are compiled)." OFF)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "Compile shared libraries (if OFF, static libraries and binaries are compiled)." OFF)
```
We should update this documentation too, otherwise users may not see it (I doubt that many open `CMakeLists.txt`).

  set(DLL_COPY_DIRS "" CACHE STRING "List of directories (separated by ';') containing DLLs to copy for runtime.")
  set(DLL_COPY_LIBS "" CACHE STRING "List of DLLs (separated by ';') that should be copied for runtime.")
elseif(CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)
  option(BUILD_SHARED_LIBS

>       "Compile shared libraries (if OFF, static libraries are compiled)." OFF)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "Compile shared libraries (if OFF, static libraries and binaries are compiled)." OFF)
```

else()
  option(BUILD_SHARED_LIBS

>       "Compile shared libraries (if OFF, static libraries are compiled)." ON)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      "Compile shared libraries (if OFF, static libraries and binaries are compiled)." ON)
```

option(DOWNLOAD_STB_IMAGE "Download stb_image for image loading." ON)
option(BUILD_GO_SHLIB "Build Go shared library." OFF)
option(BUILD_DOCS "Build doxygen documentation (if doxygen is available)." ON)

> set(BOARD_NAME "" CACHE INTERNAL "Enter the board name to compile mlpack for.")

Reviewer: I worried that this would override any value of `BOARD_NAME` that had been set, but then I found this in the CMake documentation:

> Since cache entries are meant to provide user-settable values this does not overwrite existing cache entries by default.

So, I guess this is just fine. :)

if (CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)
  include(board/flags-config.cmake)

>   if (BOARD_NAME STRGREATER  "")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  if (BOARD_NAME)
```

I think, but I'm not 100% sure of this.

Author: Neither do I, but I do remember as this is the only way to check if a string is empty, let me check on this locally before commiting

> if(CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)
>   include(board/flags-config.cmake)
>   if(BOARD_NAME STRGREATER  "")
>     flags(${BOARD_NAME})
>   endif()
> endif()

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
if (CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)
  include(board/flags-config.cmake)
  if (BOARD_NAME STRGREATER  "")
    flags(${BOARD_NAME})
  endif()
endif()
```

Might be a good idea to use the same style across the file, I think above you used another style as well.

Author: I will unify it locally

# Set minimum library version required by mlpack.
set(ARMADILLO_VERSION "8.400.0")
set(ENSMALLEN_VERSION "2.10.0")
set(BOOST_VERSION "1.58")
set(CEREAL_VERSION "1.1.2")

> # If BUILD_SHARED_LIBS is OFF then mlpack library will be build statically
> # In addition, all mlpack CLI bindings are going to be linked statically as
> # well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# If BUILD_SHARED_LIBS is OFF then the mlpack library will be built statically.
# In addition, all mlpack CLI bindings will be linked statically as well.
```
:)

if (WIN32)
  option(BUILD_SHARED_LIBS
      "Compile shared libraries (if OFF, static libraries and binaries are compiled)." OFF)

  set(DLL_COPY_DIRS "" CACHE STRING "List of directories (separated by ';') containing DLLs to copy for runtime.")
  set(DLL_COPY_LIBS "" CACHE STRING "List of DLLs (separated by ';') that should be copied for runtime.")
elseif(CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)
  option(BUILD_SHARED_LIBS
      "Compile shared libraries (if OFF, static libraries and binaries are compiled)." OFF)
else()
  option(BUILD_SHARED_LIBS
      "Compile shared libraries (if OFF, static libraries and binaries are compiled)." ON)
endif()

> # Support preference of static libs by adjusting CMAKE_FIND_LIBRARY_SUFFIXES

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Support preference of static libs by adjusting CMAKE_FIND_LIBRARY_SUFFIXES.
```

option(BUILD_GO_SHLIB "Build Go shared library." OFF)
option(BUILD_DOCS "Build doxygen documentation (if doxygen is available)." ON)

if(CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)

>   set(BOARD_NAME "" CACHE INTERNAL "Enter the board name to compile mlpack for.")

Author: I frankly have no idea what to do here, I will think of a solution for it.

>   set(BOARD_NAME "" CACHE INTERNAL "Enter the board name to compile mlpack for.")

Author: @rcurtin Would you mind if I declare it outside `CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILNG` with the set of the above options?

>   set(BOARD_NAME "" CACHE INTERNAL "Enter the board name to compile mlpack for.")

Reviewer: Yeah, I think that you will have to do that.  I think `option()` only supports `Bool` types though.

>   set(BOARD_NAME "" CACHE INTERNAL "Enter the board name to compile mlpack for.")

Author: I have already refactored this part, it is just `set()`.
Let me know what do you think, I think I have ll discussions resolved.
All tests here are passing, I am starting one on Jenkins

  set(GFORTRAN_LIBRARY "" CACHE STRING "Path for gfortran library.")
  set(PTHREAD_LIBRARY "" CACHE STRING "Path for Pthread library")

>   set(GCC_VERSION ""  CACHE STRING "")

Reviewer: Is this ever used anywhere?  I think if GCC is being used, CMake actually has variables to get the version available anyway.

Author: Frankly, this variable is only for Ubuntu users that are usually on docker container who might use the default toolchain instead of buildroot, therefore, in this particular case, `aarch64-linux-gnu-gcc` might not exist, but instead it is often named as `aarch64-linux-gnu-gcc-5` with no dynamic link toward  `aarch64-linux-gnu-gcc`. In this case, the user might not be able at all to find the cross compiler, therefore I have added this variable, so the user can use it in this particular case

Reviewer: Shouldn't they just override `CMAKE_CXX_COMPILER` then?  (Perhaps by modifying the toolchain file?)

Author: Of course, my initial thought was to reduce the user need to modify the toolchain file, but since it is a very rare case it will be more logical to remove the variable, and add mention this in documentation

option(BUILD_GO_SHLIB "Build Go shared library." OFF)
option(BUILD_DOCS "Build doxygen documentation (if doxygen is available)." ON)

if(CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)
  set(BOARD_NAME "" CACHE STRING "Enter the board name to compile mlpack for.")
  set(GFORTRAN_LIBRARY "" CACHE STRING "Path for gfortran library.")
  set(GCC_VERSION ""  CACHE STRING "")
endif()

if (CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING AND (BOARD_NAME STREQUAL ""))

>   message(FATAL_ERROR "Please enter the board name")

Reviewer: Could it be better to continue anyway here?  CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING is standard CMake support, so it seems to me that even if a specific board configuration is not specified, if they still specify all the necessary CMake variables it should still work.

Author: Yeah, Agreed, the board will only specify the flags, therefore, it is not necessary neither important. 
Of course, it is better to specify the board, but not obligatory.
I will refactor this part

elseif(CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING AND (BOARD_NAME STRGREATER ""))
  include(board/flags-config.cmake)
  flags(${BOARD_NAME})

>   set(OPENBLAS_LIBRARIES "${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/../OpenBLAS-0.3.13/libopenblas.a" CACHE STRING "OpenBLAS PATH")

Reviewer 2: Maybe I missed something but does it need to be `openblas`, I thought `blas, lapack` is good as well?

Author: Because we have to download them and cross compile them before doing anything, if you would like we can add `blas` and `lapack` but this should mean that we need to add them to the auto-downloader and cross compile them for each architecture, even if at the end we are going to use the best one `OpenBLAS` usually.

Reviewer: Auto-downloaders should probably be optional---so if the user wants, they can provide their own statically-cross-compiled dependency.  It might be a little bit more CMake work to get that support, though.

Author: I added an optional autodownloader, it should be set by the user if the deps are not available. The default value is set to `OFF`

  set(CEREAL_INCLUDE_DIR "${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/../cereal-1.3.0/include" CACHE STRING "Cereal header PATH")
  set(Boost_INCLUDE_DIRS "${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/../boost_1_75_0" CACHE STRING "Boost header PATH")

>   set(ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIR "${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/../armadillo-8.400.0/include" CACHE STRING "Armadillo header PATH")

Reviewer: Can we still use the CMake library search functionality here?  It seems like all we really need to do here is get GFORTRAN_LIBRARY set right and OPENBLAS_LIBRARIES set to a statically linked version of OpenBLAS for the target architecture.

Reviewer 2: I probably miss something, but why do we list specific versions here?

Author: @rcurtin  I know, I totally agree with you, using the already installed version will make our life easier, but unfortunately we can not use the system header, in fact we can not use anything from the system root file when cross compiling.
The reason for this is related to C/C++ headers and anything related to (binaries, libraries (libpthread). etc.). Knowing that C++ headers for aaarch64 are different from the x86, therefore we need to tell the CMake where is the new root for C++ libraries and for relative dependencies. 
I know, this is the main problem when cross compiling, we need to keep two root file systems, one for the host and one for the target. Usually cross-compiling platforms such as `buildroot` download all the dependencies for host and target and respectively compile and cross-compile them one by one in order to create a full Linux system image.
What is good in our case, it that we have to download only-headers libraries, with no requirement for cross compilation. 
The only cross-compiling we need to do is for OpenBLAS.
Let me know what do you think, if you have a better idea let me know :+1:

The second main issue here is related to the toolchain, the user has  to install the toolchain, and I suppose also that is if the user want to cross-compile, then the user has a relative good knowledge about toolchains. 

The best solution I can see for a cross compilation issue can be similar to what build `buildroot` is doing, which is to provide a config file, or ncurses `make menueconfig` similar to how to configure the Linux kernel. The user will do `make meuconfig`, choose the target platform, processor type, and that is all. `Makefile will take care of everything else. 

@zoq I matched the version here to be the same as the one in `download_dependencies.sh` script in `board directory.
These are the default values, otherwise the user can set a new path for these deps

Reviewer: Right, I see that we need to use the system C++ headers specific to the target host, so I agree that a user will need to tell us where those are.  (I guess that is part of the toolchain file.)  But we should still be able to use, e.g., cereal, Boost, and Armadillo headers that are installed on the system.  Maybe I overlooked something?

Reviewer: Thanks for clarifying this for me today---I had not realized that if, e.g., `CEREAL_INCLUDE_DIR` is set to `/usr/include/` that this will translate into `-I/usr/include/`, which is a disaster for cross-compilation. :)  My thinking is that we can provide an auto-downloader for convenience, but also we should make it easy so that a user who knows what they are doing can already have set up all the dependencies in their cross-compilation environment (or elsewhere) and then can specify, e.g., `CEREAL_INCLUDE_DIR`, `ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIR`, etc. without problems. :+1:

  # mlpack uses it's own mlpack::backtrace class based on Binary File Descriptor
  # <bfd.h> and linux Dynamic Loader <libdl.h> and more portable version in future

>   if(CMAKE_SYSTEM_NAME STREQUAL "Linux" AND (NOT CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING))

Reviewer: Do you really need to set `AND (NOT CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)`?  I think what will happen in most cases is just that Bfd or LibDL can't be found, and then nothing happens.

Author: If this is the case, then I am okay with removing it, I have only added it for precaution

Reviewer: Give it a shot and let's see what happens. :)  We could also add an option like `SHOW_BACKTRACES` and just set that to `OFF` as the default if we are cross-compiling (and `ON` otherwise), if we do have problems.

  # mlpack uses it's own mlpack::backtrace class based on Binary File Descriptor
  # <bfd.h> and linux Dynamic Loader <libdl.h> and more portable version in future
  if(CMAKE_SYSTEM_NAME STREQUAL "Linux")

>     if(NOT CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)

Author: Exactly :+1:

#   ENSMALLEN_INCLUDE_DIR - include directory for ensmallen
#   STB_IMAGE_INCLUDE_DIR - include directory for STB image library
#   MATHJAX_ROOT - root of MathJax installation

# Remove support for older 32bit system, if we need to have 32bit system
# Since we are cross compiling, We will download it into the deps folder,
find_package(Armadillo "${ARMADILLO_VERSION}")
if(NOT ARMADILLO_FOUND AND (NOT DISABLE_DOWNLOADS))
  get_deps(http://files.mlpack.org/armadillo-10.3.0.tar.gz armadillo armadillo-10.3.0.tar.gz)
  set(ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIR ${GENERIC_INCLUDE_DIR})
  find_package(Armadillo REQUIRED)
endif()
# Include directories for the previous dependencies.
set(MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS ${MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS} ${ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIR})

# We do not have to link with Armadillo if we are cross compiling
if(CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)
  get_deps(https://github.com/xianyi/OpenBLAS/releases/download/v0.3.13/OpenBLAS-0.3.13.tar.gz OpenBLAS OpenBLAS-0.3.13.tar.gz)
  find_library(GFORTRAN NAMES libgfortran.a PATHS ${CMAKE_SYSROOT}/usr/lib)

>   find_library(PTHREAD NAMES libpthread.a PATHS ${CMAKE_SYSROOT}/usr/lib)

Reviewer: Looks great!  I'm glad these could be simplified. :+1:

  set(MLPACK_LIBRARIES ${MLPACK_LIBRARIES} ${OPENBLAS_LIBRARIES} ${GFORTRAN} ${PTHREAD})
else()

>   set(MLPACK_LIBRARIES ${MLPACK_LIBRARIES} ${ARMADILLO_LIBRARY})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  set(MLPACK_LIBRARIES ${MLPACK_LIBRARIES} ${ARMADILLO_LIBRARIES})
```
This is a bit of an important point: Armadillo can be configured with or without the "wrapper"; this is controlled by the `ARMA_USE_WRAPPER` macro in `include/armadillo_bits/config.hpp`.  If `ARMA_USE_WRAPPER` is set, then we can link against only `libarmadillo.so` (or whatever the object is called).  If `ARMA_USE_WRAPPER` is not set---or if `ARMA_DONT_USE_WRAPPER` is set, then we have to link against all the dependencies of Armadillo instead.  Depending on the user's configuration, this could be more than just OpenBLAS; please take a look at the details of `FindArmadillo.cmake` to understand what's going on. :+1:

In the case where the autodownloader is being used, `ARMA_USE_WRAPPER` will not be set, as you are just using the sources directly in `include/` from the unpacked tarball.  But what happens if the autodownloader is not being used, and `ARMA_USE_WRAPPER` is true?  In this case, I suppose we need to find the statically-linked Armadillo library (`libarmadillo.a` or similar).

I think maybe we want to put some of the logic here into `FindArmadillo.cmake`.  Really the only difference between `CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING` being true or false is whether we want static libraries or not to link against.  So perhaps we should modify `FindArmadillo.cmake` to take the variable `BUILD_SHARED_LIBS` into account, and if it's `OFF`, then search for static libraries (and also add gfortran and pthread).

Ideally, we should have as little as possible specific to `CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING`---really that just controls whether or not we want static linking and what the compiler/toolchain is.  But our actual CMake logic should be separated from that.

#   ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIRS - directories necessary for Armadillo includes
#   BOOST_ROOT - root of Boost installation
#   BOOST_INCLUDEDIR - include directory for Boost
#   CEREAL_INCLUDE_DIR - include directory for cereal
#   ENSMALLEN_INCLUDE_DIR - include directory for ensmallen
#   STB_IMAGE_INCLUDE_DIR - include directory for STB image library
#   MATHJAX_ROOT - root of MathJax installation

if(CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)
  get_deps(https://github.com/xianyi/OpenBLAS/releases/download/v0.3.13/OpenBLAS-0.3.13.tar.gz OpenBLAS OpenBLAS-0.3.13.tar.gz)
  if(NOT MSVC)
    execute_process(COMMAND make TARGET=ARMV8 BINARY=64 HOSTCC=gcc CC=${CMAKE_C_COMPILER} FC=${CMAKE_FORTRAN_COMPILER} NO_SHARED=1
                    WORKING_DIRECTORY ${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/deps/OpenBLAS-0.3.13)
    file(GLOB OPENBLAS_LIBRARIES "${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/deps/OpenBLAS-0.3.13/libopenblas.a")

>     # set(OPENBLAS_LIBRARIES ${OPENBLAS})

Reviewer 2: Looks like we can remove this line.

  endif()
  find_library(GFORTRAN NAMES libgfortran.a PATHS ${CMAKE_SYSROOT}/usr/lib)
  find_library(PTHREAD NAMES libpthread.a PATHS ${CMAKE_SYSROOT}/usr/lib)
  set(MLPACK_LIBRARIES ${MLPACK_LIBRARIES} ${OPENBLAS_LIBRARIES} ${GFORTRAN} ${PTHREAD})
endif()

# Remove support for older 32bit system, if we need to have 32bit system

> # Since we are cross compiling, We will download it into the deps folder,

Reviewer 2: Looks like the comment is incomplete?

Author: maybe :thinking: I will check

if(DISABLE_DOWNLOADS)
  find_package(Armadillo "${ARMADILLO_VERSION}" REQUIRED)
elseif(NOT ARMADILLO_FOUND AND (NOT DISABLE_DOWNLOADS))

>   get_deps(http://files.mlpack.org/armadillo-10.3.0.tar.gz armadillo armadillo-10.3.0.tar.gz)

Reviewer 2: Not sure but maybe it makes sense to serve `armadillo-latest` on the files server, that way we don't have to update the CMake file everytime there is a new armadillo release.

Reviewer 2: I guess if we go for it we should do it for the other packages as well, OpenBLAS, cereal.

Author: Yeah, agreed, but this will add more work to do on the mlpack.org side for maintenance.
Also, cereal development seems to be slow, so it might work if we add `cereal-latest`
It might be a good idea to do this :+1:

Author: @rcurtin @zoq if you agree with this solution, I am happy to open a pull request on mlpack.org and add armadillo, cereal, and openblas. Let me know what do you think

  set(ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIR ${GENERIC_INCLUDE_DIR})
  find_package(Armadillo REQUIRED)
endif()
# Include directories for the previous dependencies.
set(MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS ${MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS} ${ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIRS})
# We do have to link with Armadillo if we are NOT cross compiling
if(NOT CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)
  set(MLPACK_LIBRARIES ${MLPACK_LIBRARIES} ${ARMADILLO_LIBRARIES})

> endif()

Reviewer: I think that you have to add `ARMADILLO_LIBRARIES` regardless of whether or not cross-compiling is being done, since `ARMADILLO_LIBRARIES` could contain other things like HDF5, SuperLU, etc.

Author: Agreed but in this case, they should be header only.
I think this is the case for `HDF5`, but I am not sure for `SuperLU`

#   ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIRS - directories necessary for Armadillo includes
#   BOOST_ROOT - root of Boost installation
#   BOOST_INCLUDEDIR - include directory for Boost
#   CEREAL_INCLUDE_DIR - include directory for cereal
#   ENSMALLEN_INCLUDE_DIR - include directory for ensmallen
#   STB_IMAGE_INCLUDE_DIR - include directory for STB image library
#   MATHJAX_ROOT - root of MathJax installation

if (CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)
  get_deps(https://github.com/xianyi/OpenBLAS/releases/download/v0.3.13/OpenBLAS-0.3.13.tar.gz OpenBLAS OpenBLAS-0.3.13.tar.gz)
  if (NOT MSVC)
    execute_process(COMMAND make TARGET=ARMV8 BINARY=64 HOSTCC=gcc CC=${CMAKE_C_COMPILER} FC=${CMAKE_FORTRAN_COMPILER} NO_SHARED=1
                    WORKING_DIRECTORY ${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/deps/OpenBLAS-0.3.13)
    file(GLOB OPENBLAS_LIBRARIES "${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/deps/OpenBLAS-0.3.13/libopenblas.a")
  endif()
  find_library(GFORTRAN NAMES libgfortran.a PATHS ${CMAKE_SYSROOT}/usr/lib)
  find_library(PTHREAD NAMES libpthread.a PATHS ${CMAKE_SYSROOT}/usr/lib)

>   set(MLPACK_LIBRARIES ${MLPACK_LIBRARIES} ${OPENBLAS_LIBRARIES} ${GFORTRAN} ${PTHREAD})

Reviewer: I *think* that setting `OPENBLAS_LIBRARIES` here should be unnecessary---`find_package(Armadillo ...)` should return `ARMADILLO_LIBRARIES` with `libopenblas.a` in it.

Author: I will give a try locally and see what happen

Author: @rcurtin it did not work, `libopenblas` was not listed on the linker, I suppose that `ARMADILLO_LIBRARIES` was empty? If you think it is very important, I am happy to take sometime to see what is happening unless if it does not worth the effort.
Let me know what do you think

Reviewer: No need to put a huge amount of time into it, but do you think you can add a `message(STATUS "Armadillo libraries: ${ARMADILLO_LIBRARIES}")` after the `find_package(Armadillo ...)` just so that we can see what it's finding?  I think you have things set up so that will run on Jenkins and we can both take a look at the log?

Author: Of course, I have added it, you can have a look, I have printed locally the variable is empty. Here is a link toward Jenkins:
http://ci.mlpack.org/job/aarch64/51/console

Reviewer: I spent a long time trying to figure out what was going on here.  My digging took me into `CMake/FindArmadillo.cmake` where I found a few typos and bugs (I posted about that in the main review comment), and then into the CMake-supplied `FindBLAS.cmake` and `FindLAPACK.cmake`.  I discovered that we can get `FindBLAS.cmake` to find OpenBLAS when it's statically compiled, but only if we set these variables beforehand:

```
set(BLA_VENDOR OpenBLAS)
set(BLA_STATIC ON)
```

So, you could do that instead of `set(MLPACK_LIBRARIES ${MLPACK_LIBRARIES} ${OPENBLAS_LIBRARIES})`.

Next, I wanted to figure out why `ARMADILLO_LIBRARIES` did not end up with pthread or gfortran in it.  I couldn't figure this one out, because I could see that `find_package(Threads)` was being called from inside `FindBLAS.cmake`.  So, I can't come up with a better solution than what you are doing here.  But, I do think it would be better to add those two to `COMPILER_SUPPORT_LIBRARIES` instead:

```
  message(STATUS "Found gfortran: ${GFORTRAN}")
  message(STATUS "Found pthread: ${PTHREAD}")
  set(COMPILER_SUPPORT_LIBRARIES ${COMPILER_SUPPORT_LIBRARIES} ${GFORTRAN} ${PTHREAD})
```

Also, the `PATHS` is unnecessary (CMake will already search `${CMAKE_SYSROOT}/usr/lib/`):

```
  find_library(GFORTRAN NAMES libgfortran.a)
  find_library(PTHREAD NAMES libpthread.a)
```

endif()

if (DISABLE_DOWNLOADS)
  find_package(Armadillo "${ARMADILLO_VERSION}" REQUIRED)
else()

>   find_package(Aramdillo "${ARMADILLO_VERSION}")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  find_package(Armadillo "${ARMADILLO_VERSION}")
```
:)

Reviewer: Actually, this may also be the reason that the MacOS build is failing.  Not 100% sure though.

#   ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIRS - directories necessary for Armadillo includes
#   BOOST_ROOT - root of Boost installation
#   BOOST_INCLUDEDIR - include directory for Boost
#   CEREAL_INCLUDE_DIR - include directory for cereal
#   ENSMALLEN_INCLUDE_DIR - include directory for ensmallen
#   STB_IMAGE_INCLUDE_DIR - include directory for STB image library
#   MATHJAX_ROOT - root of MathJax installation

if (CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)
  get_deps(https://github.com/xianyi/OpenBLAS/releases/download/v0.3.13/OpenBLAS-0.3.13.tar.gz OpenBLAS OpenBLAS-0.3.13.tar.gz)

>   if (NOT MSVC)

Reviewer: I noticed that this runs every time configuration happens, which is probably not what we want.  If you want to see, just try typing `cmake ../` a second time after configuring CMake.  Maybe a solution here is to have `get_deps()` first check to see if the target directory exists, and if so, it does nothing but sets some variable like `DOWNLOAD_ALREADY_EXISTS`.  Then, here, we enclose the `execute_process()` in a `if (NOT DOWNLOAD_ALREADY_EXISTS)`.  That's just one idea; I can think of a few ways to do it.  Let me know what you think. :+1:

Author: I will add two check, one for the package and the other for the library.
In this case, if the library is already downloaded, then it will check if it is already compiled.
We do not want to run into a situation when the library is only downloaded but not compiled.

Reviewer: @shrit good call; I would be okay with just assuming that if it wasn't downloaded it needed to be downloaded and compiled, but two checks is fine (and safer) too. :+1:

    execute_process(COMMAND make TARGET=ARMV8 BINARY=64 HOSTCC=gcc CC=${CMAKE_C_COMPILER} FC=${CMAKE_FORTRAN_COMPILER} NO_SHARED=1
                    WORKING_DIRECTORY ${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/deps/OpenBLAS-0.3.13)
    file(GLOB OPENBLAS_LIBRARIES "${CMAKE_BINARY_DIR}/deps/OpenBLAS-0.3.13/libopenblas.a")
  endif()
  find_library(GFORTRAN NAMES libgfortran.a PATHS ${CMAKE_SYSROOT}/usr/lib)
  find_library(PTHREAD NAMES libpthread.a PATHS ${CMAKE_SYSROOT}/usr/lib)
  set(MLPACK_LIBRARIES ${MLPACK_LIBRARIES} ${OPENBLAS_LIBRARIES} ${GFORTRAN} ${PTHREAD})
endif()

if (DISABLE_DOWNLOADS)
  find_package(Armadillo "${ARMADILLO_VERSION}" REQUIRED)
else()
  find_package(Armadillo "${ARMADILLO_VERSION}")
  if (NOT ARMADILLO_FOUND)
    get_deps(http://files.mlpack.org/armadillo-10.3.0.tar.gz armadillo armadillo-10.3.0.tar.gz)
    set(ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIR ${GENERIC_INCLUDE_DIR})
    find_package(Armadillo REQUIRED)
  endif()
endif()
# Include directories for the previous dependencies.
set(MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS ${MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS} ${ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIRS})
set(MLPACK_LIBRARIES ${MLPACK_LIBRARIES} ${ARMADILLO_LIBRARIES})

> message(STATUS "ARMADILLO LIBRARIES: ${ARMADILLO_LIBRARIES}")

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I know we put this here just for debugging, so I figured a suggestion would make it easy to remove now that we're done. :)

# Find stb_image.h and stb_image_write.h.
if (DISABLE_DOWNLOADS)

>   find_package(StbImage REQUIRED)

Reviewer: I don't think this should be `REQUIRED`---it's possible to compile mlpack without STB support.  Instead maybe this whole block should be this:

```
if (DISABLE_DOWNLOADS)
  find_package(StbImage)
else()
  find_package(StbImage)
  if (NOT STB_IMAGE_FOUND)
    get_deps(http://mlpack.org/files/stb.tar.gz stb stb.tar.gz)
    set(STB_IMAGE_INCLUDE_DIR ${GENERIC_INCLUDE_DIR})
    find_package(StbImage REQUIRED)
  endif()
endif()

if (STB_IMAGE_FOUND)
  add_definitions(-DHAS_STB)
  set(STB_AVAILABLE "1")
endif()
```

Let me know if I overlooked something.

Author: I do believe that this should work

#   ENSMALLEN_INCLUDE_DIR - include directory for ensmallen
#   STB_IMAGE_INCLUDE_DIR - include directory for STB image library
#   MATHJAX_ROOT - root of MathJax installation

# Remove support for older 32bit system, if we need to have 32bit system
# Since we are cross compiling, We will download it into the deps folder,
find_package(Armadillo "${ARMADILLO_VERSION}")

> if(NOT ARMADILLO_FOUND)

Reviewer: I think we also need to consider the `DISABLE_DOWNLOADS` variable here---if the user told us they don't want to download anything if it's not available, we should respect that. :+1:

  get_deps(https://freefr.dl.sourceforge.net/project/arma/armadillo-10.3.0.tar.xz armadillo armadillo-10.3.0.tar.xz)
  set(ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIR ${GENERIC_INCLUDE_DIR})
  find_package(Armadillo REQUIRED)

> endif()

Author: Definitely, :+1: I wanted to ask you if this is possible :smile:

# Include directories for the previous dependencies.
set(MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS ${MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS} ${ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIR})

# We do not have to link with Armadillo if we are cross compiling
if(CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)
  get_deps(https://github.com/xianyi/OpenBLAS/releases/download/v0.3.13/OpenBLAS-0.3.13.tar.gz OpenBLAS OpenBLAS-0.3.13.tar.gz)
  find_library(GFORTRAN NAMES libgfortran.a PATHS ${CMAKE_SYSROOT}/usr/lib)
  find_library(PTHREAD NAMES libpthread.a PATHS ${CMAKE_SYSROOT}/usr/lib)
  set(MLPACK_LIBRARIES ${MLPACK_LIBRARIES} ${OPENBLAS_LIBRARIES} ${GFORTRAN} ${PTHREAD})
else()
  set(MLPACK_LIBRARIES ${MLPACK_LIBRARIES} ${ARMADILLO_LIBRARY})
endif()

# Find stb_image.h and stb_image_write.h.
find_package(StbImage)
# Download stb_image for image loading.
if (NOT STB_IMAGE_FOUND)
  get_deps(http://mlpack.org/files/stb.tar.gz stb stb.tar.gz)
  set(STB_IMAGE_INCLUDE_DIR ${GENERIC_INCLUDE_DIR})
  find_package(StbImage REQUIRED)
endif()
set(MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS ${MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS} "${STB_IMAGE_INCLUDE_DIR}")
add_definitions(-DHAS_STB)

> set(STB_AVAILABLE "1")

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be inside of the if?  I think we only want to set these if we actually found STB.

# Remove support for older 32bit system, if we need to have 32bit system
# Since we are cross compiling, We will download it into the deps folder,
find_package(Armadillo "${ARMADILLO_VERSION}")
if(NOT ARMADILLO_FOUND)
  get_deps(https://freefr.dl.sourceforge.net/project/arma/armadillo-10.3.0.tar.xz armadillo armadillo-10.3.0.tar.xz)
  find_package(Armadillo)
endif()
# Include directories for the previous dependencies.
set(MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS ${MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS} ${ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIR})

# We do not have to link with Armadillo if we are cross compiling
if(CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)
  get_deps(https://github.com/xianyi/OpenBLAS/releases/download/v0.3.13/OpenBLAS-0.3.13.tar.gz OpenBLAS OpenBLAS-0.3.13.tar.gz)
 
  ## I am open to this solution find_library() but only if it works :D.
  # find_library(GFORTRAN_LIBRARY NAMES gfortran PATHS ${CMAKE_SYSROOT}/usr/lib)

  ## This solution is good only if you use buildroot toolchain, for other toolchains users should overwrite these
  ## variables in all cases
  set(GFORTRAN_LIBRARY "${CMAKE_SYSROOT}/usr/lib/libgfortran.a")
  set(PTHREAD_LIBRARY "${CMAKE_SYSROOT}/usr/lib/libpthread.a")
  message(STATUS "GFORTRAN_LIBRARY ${GFORTRAN_LIBRARY}")

>   message(STATUS "PTHREAD_LIBRARY ${PTHREAD_LIBRARY}")

Reviewer: Instead of `set()`, you can probably use `find_library()` to set `GFORTRAN_LIBRARY` and `PTHREAD_LIBRARY`.  This way, if a user specifies either variable, CMake won't actually search for it; but if they don't specify the variable, then CMake will search all of its usual directories (including `CMAKE_SYSROOT` I think).

Author: I tried to use `find_library ()` it never worked, I am happy to find an example to show me if it will work one day.

Reviewer: It shouldn't be too hard: https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/command/find_library.html

I think that something like this could work:

```
find_library(GFORTRAN_LIBRARY NAMES libgfortran.a gfortran.a libgfortran.dll.a gfortran libgfortran)
```

This may be helpful too: https://cmake.org/pipermail/cmake/2010-December/041326.html

I haven't tried that command directly, but the way it should work is that if the user specifies `GFORTRAN_LIBRARY` on the command line, `find_library()` will do nothing.  In this case, I would expect that if you set `CMAKE_SYSROOT` to the root of the buildroot installation, it *should* be able to find gfortran... it might take a little debugging and playing with it to get it right, but it definitely should work. :+1:

Author: I will give it a try thanks, I wrote something similar even with specifying the path, I did not try to add all cases of gfortran, I will add this one and see what will happen :+1:

#   ENSMALLEN_INCLUDE_DIR - include directory for ensmallen
#   STB_IMAGE_INCLUDE_DIR - include directory for STB image library
#   MATHJAX_ROOT - root of MathJax installation

# Remove support for older 32bit system, if we need to have 32bit system
# Since we are cross compiling, We will download it into the deps folder,
find_package(Armadillo "${ARMADILLO_VERSION}")
if(NOT ARMADILLO_FOUND AND (NOT DISABLE_DOWNLOADS))
  get_deps(http://files.mlpack.org/armadillo-10.3.0.tar.gz armadillo armadillo-10.3.0.tar.gz)
  set(ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIR ${GENERIC_INCLUDE_DIR})
  find_package(Armadillo REQUIRED)
endif()
# Include directories for the previous dependencies.

> set(MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS ${MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS} ${ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIR})

Reviewer: ```suggestion
set(MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS ${MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS} ${ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIRS})
```
Ah, just like `ARMADILLO_LIBRARY` vs. `ARMADILLO_LIBRARIES`, we might find multiple include directories for Armadillo's dependencies, so we need to use `ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIRS` here. :+1:

# We do not have to link with Armadillo if we are cross compiling
if(CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)
  get_deps(https://github.com/xianyi/OpenBLAS/releases/download/v0.3.13/OpenBLAS-0.3.13.tar.gz OpenBLAS OpenBLAS-0.3.13.tar.gz)
  find_library(GFORTRAN NAMES libgfortran.a PATHS ${CMAKE_SYSROOT}/usr/lib)
  find_library(PTHREAD NAMES libpthread.a PATHS ${CMAKE_SYSROOT}/usr/lib)
  set(MLPACK_LIBRARIES ${MLPACK_LIBRARIES} ${OPENBLAS_LIBRARIES} ${GFORTRAN} ${PTHREAD})
else()
  set(MLPACK_LIBRARIES ${MLPACK_LIBRARIES} ${ARMADILLO_LIBRARIES})
endif()

# Find stb_image.h and stb_image_write.h.
find_package(StbImage)
# Download stb_image for image loading.
if (NOT STB_IMAGE_FOUND AND (NOT DISABLE_DOWNLOADS))
  get_deps(http://mlpack.org/files/stb.tar.gz stb stb.tar.gz)
  set(STB_IMAGE_INCLUDE_DIR ${GENERIC_INCLUDE_DIR})
  find_package(StbImage REQUIRED)
  add_definitions(-DHAS_STB)
  set(STB_AVAILABLE "1")
endif()

> set(MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS ${MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS} "${STB_IMAGE_INCLUDE_DIR}")

Reviewer: I think we need an `if (STB_FOUND)` or similar here; otherwise, we might be adding `STB_IMAGE-NOTFOUND` to the list of include directories.  I'm not 100% sure on that; it's something worth checking though.  You could see what happens by configuring with `-DDISABLE_DOWNLOADS=ON` and making sure STB is not available on the system, then printing `MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS` at the end of the CMake configuration.

Author: Agreed, I think there has been `STB_FOUND `

#   ENSMALLEN_INCLUDE_DIR - include directory for ensmallen
#   STB_IMAGE_INCLUDE_DIR - include directory for STB image library
#   MATHJAX_ROOT - root of MathJax installation

# Remove support for older 32bit system, if we need to have 32bit system
# Since we are cross compiling, We will download it into the deps folder,
if (NOT CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)

>   find_package(Armadillo "${ARMADILLO_VERSION}" REQUIRED)

Reviewer: Perhaps in this situation we can force CMake to use Armadillo in header-only mode?  It would be great to use the system-installed version, since by itself Armadillo is header-only.

Author: I know, I agree totally with you, but unfortunately as detailed above we can not use `find_package()` since it is going to search in the system header.

Reviewer: Ok, let's work out the reply above and we can then return to this with the conclusion. :+1:

Reviewer: For this (and other comments like it), I think we can use `find_package()` just fine, expecting either that the user has (a) set `ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIR` correctly, (b) installed Armadillo to the root of their cross-compilation toolchain include directory, (c) used the auto-downloader, which can set `ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIR` before the `find_package()` call.

Author: I will give it a try, it should work.

Author: @rcurtin I test it locally with ensmallen since it doesn't have `if(NOT CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)` before `find_package()`.
It can be possible to remove the `if(NOT CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)` but there are two cases:
1) if ensmallen is installed manually, then it is fine, since it is installed in `/usr/local/include`
2) if ensmallen is installed via system package manager, then it will be found in `/usr/include` which will show the above issue.
3) if ensmallen is not found, it will be downloaded automatically which is also fine too.

This will be the same issue with `stb`.

Therefore, in order to avoid being in case 2) I have to put `if(NOT CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)` before `find_package` for the two above cases.

Anythoughts?

Reviewer: Does your cross-compilation setup set `CMAKE_FIND_ROOT_PATH` to something other than the default?  If `CMAKE_FIND_ROOT_PATH` is set correctly, then I believe `/usr/include/` should not be searched.

Author: Yes, `CMAKE_FIND_ROOT_PATH`, is correctly set, I find the issue it is coming from `CMAKE_SYSROOT`. 
Even I set it to empty, it has a default value inside, in order to change the default value, I have set the `SYSROOT` to the same value of `FIND_ROOT_PATH`.
I removed all these `if(NOT CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)`. It is working fine now. :+1:

# CMake'.  Good luck!  You'll need it.
set(Boost_NO_BOOST_CMAKE 1)
find_package(Boost "${BOOST_VERSION}")
if(NOT Boost_FOUND AND (NOT DISABLE_DOWNLOADS))
  get_deps(https://dl.bintray.com/boostorg/release/1.75.0/source/boost_1_75_0.tar.gz boost boost_1_75_0.tar.gz)
  find_package(Boost REQUIRED)

> endif()

Reviewer: Hmm, I realized that if the user set `DISABLE_DOWNLOADS`, we might end up not issuing an error if Boost isn't found.  Here's another strategy that will use the default `find_package()` errors:

```
set(Boost_NO_BOOST_CMAKE 1)
if (DISABLE_DOWNLOADS)
  find_package(Boost "${BOOST_VERSION}" REQUIRED)
elseif (NOT DISABLE_DOWNLOADS)
  find_package(Boost "${BOOST_VERSION}")
  if (NOT Boost_FOUND)
    get_deps(https://dl.bintray.com/boostorg/release/1.75.0/source/boost_1_75_0.tar.gz boost boost_1_75_0.tar.gz)
    find_package(Boost REQUIRED)
  endif ()
endif ()
```

Probably we should use that pattern (or similar) for all instances where we use `get_deps()` to get the dependency if it's not available.

Author: Totally agreed, otherwise we will run into a situation, where libraries are not found, and the user has disabled download

# CMake'.  Good luck!  You'll need it.
set(Boost_NO_BOOST_CMAKE 1)
find_package(Boost "${BOOST_VERSION}")
if(NOT Boost_FOUND)
  get_deps(https://dl.bintray.com/boostorg/release/1.75.0/source/boost_1_75_0.tar.gz boost boost_1_75_0.tar.gz)

>   find_package(Boost)

Reviewer: When we call `find_package()` the second time, perhaps we should mark it as `REQUIRED`?

Also, we need a little bit of special handling---some packagers need to know that the build will not use any HTTP or anything, so we have the `DISABLE_DOWNLOADS` CMake flag.  So, perhaps it is better to have some flow like this:

```
find_package(Boost "${BOOST_VERSION}")
if (NOT Boost_FOUND AND NOT DISABLE_DOWNLOADS)
  get_deps(...)
endif ()
find_package(Boost REQUIRED)
```

I'm not sure the syntax is exactly right, but you get the idea I think. :)

# TODO for the brave: transition all mlpack's CMake to 'target-based modern
# CMake'.  Good luck!  You'll need it.
set(Boost_NO_BOOST_CMAKE 1)
if(DISABLE_DOWNLOADS)
  find_package(Boost "${BOOST_VERSION}" REQUIRED)

> elseif(NOT Boost_FOUND AND (NOT DISABLE_DOWNLOADS))

Reviewer: I think you have to have the `find_package()` here---if `DISABLE_DOWNLOADS` is `OFF`, then before this line we have not called `find_package(Boost ...)` at all.

    # Release versions will have ensmallen packaged with the release so we can
    # just reference that.
    if (EXISTS "${CMAKE_SOURCE_DIR}/src/mlpack/core/optimizers/ensmallen/ensmallen.hpp")

>       set(MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS ${MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS} ${ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIR}

Reviewer: We do need to use `ARMADILLO_INCLUDE_DIRS` here, since that could actually refer to several directories needed to properly capture Armadillo's dependencies (like HDF5).  Maybe reworking the `FindArmadillo.cmake` script is the better option here?

  set(MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS ${MLPACK_INCLUDE_DIRS} "${ENSMALLEN_INCLUDE_DIR}")
endif ()

if(NOT CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)
  find_package(cereal "${CEREAL_VERSION}" REQUIRED)

> endif()

Reviewer: Since cereal is header only too, I think it should be reasonable to use whatever the user has available on the system.

Author: Same as above :(

#
# TODO for the brave: transition all mlpack's CMake to 'target-based modern
# CMake'.  Good luck!  You'll need it.
if(NOT CMAKE_CROSSCOMPILING)
  set(Boost_NO_BOOST_CMAKE 1)

>   find_package(Boost "${BOOST_VERSION}")

Reviewer: In fact, if you set BOOST_ROOT, you can still call `find_package()` here just fine.  In our case we no longer link with any Boost libraries directly, so we only need to find the header. :+1:

Author: Same as above :(

Author: Same as above :(
